good morning everyone uh as you know I
am currently in the UK uh this is a
pre-recorded lecture for uh Tuesday
March 5th today we are going to be uh
finishing lecture number 12 on bipedal
locomotion and that will conclude our
discussion uh admittedly brief about
Locomotion in animals and machines and
then we'll also close out uh our second
theme of the course apologies the Third
theme of the course on the admittedly
brief history of evolutionary Robotics
and we will push on next time to
challenges open challenges in the field
of evolutionary robotics uh as always
just a little bit of logistics uh first
you will see this lecture appear at 8:30
uh a in cell G30 of uh the schedule on
Tuesday uh on Tuesday March the 5th and
I will drop a pre-recorded lecture into
cell
g34 this coming Thursday March 7th you
will then all be off for spring recess
and we will all meet back in person uh
in class on Tuesday March
19 okay today March uh the 5th
undergrads you are now starting work on
assignment 8 and graduate students you
are starting in On differentiable
Assignment three which is dedicated to
adding Motors to your differentiable uh
robot okay okay we were discussing uh
last time how in robotics at least the
uh unspoken idea is that Locomotion
undergirds cognition we looked in
lecture 11 at all the different ways
Mother Nature has gotten animals to move
and today we're focusing in on bipeds
specifically us and all the different
ways one can
move with two legs most of them we don't
use for obvious uh reasons
we ended last time by looking at uh the
azimo robot which uh strikes a
particular uh balance between
displacement robustness stability and
energy Asimo maximizes stability it's
very statically stable but very energy
energy
inefficient at the opposite end of the
spectrum uh sorry as I mentioned last
time Asimo in this silver back back here
is carrying a b
battery very energy inefficient but very
stable we're now going to look at a
different robot which strikes an
opposite tradeoff it maximizes Energy
Efficiency at the cost of uh
stability and that is the passive
Dynamic
Walker you'll notice the passive Dynamic
Walker is very Loosely anthropomorphic
it looks a little bit like a human being
and you can also notice that obviously
the passive Dynamic Walker is much much
simpler than
azimo you'll also notice that despite
this Simplicity or actually because of
this
Simplicity the passive Dynamic Walker
walks in a much more humanlike way than
azimo
does you might also notice as you watch
the passive Dynamic Walker that it's
very simple and it's very hard to see
the sensors and motors and electronics
that's controlling this
robot and that's because there are no
sensors no Motors no electronics so um
sometimes this machine is referred to as
a passive Dynamic robot it's not
strictly a robot at all it's more
strictly known as a mechanism it's just
mechanical there's no active control
whatsoever um you can see that it's very
energy efficient it's actually not using
any energy from any Motors at all to
walk because there are no Motors so
where is the robot gaining the energy
with which to
walk it's gaining it by transforming
potential energy into kinetic energy uh
it may be hard to see in this video but
the passive Dynamic Walker is walking
down a very slightly declined slope at
the top of that slope there's more
potential energy than there is at the
bottom and so the robot uh can use that
potential energy to convert it into
kinetic energy extremely energy
efficient but as always with a movement
that comes at a cost the robot has to
sacrifice one or more of the other three
deera of movement in order to be energy
efficient I'll give you a moment to
think about what that deera a cidara
is I've already kind of mentioned it its
stability you'll notice that there's a
human watching very carefully um it took
them a lot of takes to get this video um
the passive Dynamic Walker is very
unstable it's very very easy for it to
fall over it is also minimally robust
meaning it's not robust to different
kinds of environments this passive
Dynamic Walker will only walk down
slopes of exactly this angle a little
bit less a little bit more doesn't work
it needs to walk down exactly uh a slope
with this particular uh texture and uh
friction properties and so on you'll
notice that the curvature the this robot
has curved uh undersides on its feet the
curvature of these feet have to be just
right in order to get this to to
work
okay so now that we have the passive
Dynamic Walker that Walker can work in a
very very narrow range of environments
but of course if we want to uh mature
this technology into an actual robot
that can actually bipedally walk in a
wider range of environments we're going
to have to sacrifice a little bit of
Energy Efficiency to gain uh robustness
and
stability and taking a small step in
that direction pun intended uh was
achieved by Martin visa and his
colleagues at the Technical University
of Del in the Netherlands back in
2004 and I'll show you this robot in
action I'll show you this robot in
action it looks quite a bit like the
passive Dynamic Walker this is known as
the hybrid Dynamic Walker hybrid because
it's a hybrid of passive Dynamics and
active Dynamics what do we mean by
passive Dynamics passive Dynamics means
that things move in this case the legs
move passively the forward swing of the
hybrid's legs is a result of passive
Dynamics gravity pulling on that leg and
pulling it
forward the moment that one of the two
feet hit the ground in front of the
hybrid Walker suddenly it switches that
leg switches from passive Dynamics to
active Dynamics there is a very small uh
impulse Force that's applied at a
particular point in the gate uh I'm
sorry I
misspoke there is a small amount of
force applied by a motor at the moment
the back leg leaves the ground a mo the
moment the back leg leaves the ground
there's a small imput impulse force a
motor pushes that back leg forward to
start or accelerate the swing forward
it's almost like um the motor is
cleaning up passive Dynamic walking
which would run out of energy if it was
done on Purely flat ground because
there's no energy there for the robot to
use to keep uh
going that's the hybrid Dynamic Walker
as always in robotics uh it's
interesting to see this particular
technology which is maybe not going to
be something that's going to be deployed
as a useful technology anytime soon to
view it as a good starting point for
increasingly intelligent machines here
is a somewhat energy efficient Walker
that's able to walk over a wider range
of environments than the passive Dynamic
Walker that you
saw the problem with both of these
Technologies is it took the engineers
involved hours and hours and hours and
hours of effort to tune the body of the
robot and exactly when to apply the
impulse forces in the case of the hybrid
Walker and where and when a lot of
manual engineering effort went into
these
machines in today's lecture we're going
to discuss a particular we're going to
discuss a particular evolutionary
robotics experiment in which the uh
investigator turned over the job of
Designing the body of the robot to make
it
passively uh to walk passively or walk
in the hybrid manner we just talked
about before we do just for fun uh it's
actually not that difficult to make a
passive Dynamic Walker of your own
here's one made from
paper and here's one uh in its natural
environment I want you to
check again these are experiments that
you can try at
home
okay so the research question uh from
this paper and that we're going to talk
about in the rest of lecture 12 here is
can we evolve passive Dynamic walking
into a robot and if so how can we do it
question that's sort of the first two
questions third question is if we can
evolve a robot to move down a decline
slope with no Motors at all can we then
continue Evolution and add Motors to the
robot so that it's then able to refine
that machine to also be able to walk on
flat ground so evolve passive Dynamic
walking and then continue evolving it so
that it achieves hybrid Dynamic walking
yeah as you can guess the reason that
we're talking about this paper is they
they were able to answer both or all
three questions with yes okay let's see
how they did that they created did the
following bipedal robot in a physics
engine uh it's got a hip and two legs um
we've got for each hip we've got two
degrees of freedom so if you'll permit
me for a moment one degree of Freedom
allows the leg to swing forward and back
and the other degree of Freedom allows
the leg to swing in and out so we get a
robot that's capable of this kind of
motion of the leg relative to the
hip same thing with the other side of
the body so two degrees of freedom over
here two joints uh two rotational joints
over here another two rotational joints
over here one rotational degree of
freedom in here which is your knee joint
which obviously allows your bottom leg
to swing relative to your upper leg
through one two-dimensional
plane and at the bottom of the leg of
the bipedal robot we've got again two
rotational joints that allow the Ang
anle allow the ankle to rotate the leg
up or down relative to the lower leg and
also to uh um to yaw relative to the
lower leg to tip the T tips of the toes
inward or outward which gives this kind
of motion to the
foot
okay uh they added some additional
morphological or body parameters to the
robot they attached some masses to the
thighs and to the shanks the lower parts
of the legs okay we'll see why in a
moment okay so we've got a total of uh 1
two 3 4 five six S8 nine 10 joints that
make up this robot um that means we have
11 parts to the
robot
okay okay so here we go here are these
red uh masses here in this experiment
unlike all of the experiments we've seen
so far um we are not going to be
evolving the neural controller for the
robot because there is no neural
controller for the robot yet it's
strictly speaking not a robot it's a
mechanical mechanism so the only thing
we can evolve is the mechanism itself
parts of the body and they evolved in
this first part of the experiment one 1
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 different body
parameters so in The evolutionary
algorithm we're about to see each genome
in the population had a length of 12
there were 12 numbers that specify how
to construct this
robot we've got the first number
represents the mass of the waste how
heavy is the the waste the next uh
second number M subt which we see see
here uh corresponds to the um the mass
how heavy are these masses that are
attached to the thigh M Subs how heavy
are these masses that are attached to
the shank and finally uh some masses
that are embedded inside the feet M subf
so we have one two three four Mass uh
four numbers but we have a total of 1 2
3 4 five six and you can't see the
seventh Mass which is inside the
leg in all of these biped robots they're
all made to be bilaterally symmetric
meaning however heavy m subt is on the
robot's right leg the M subt the mass on
the left thigh that mass is exactly the
same as the mass on the right thigh yeah
so we only need four numbers the mass of
the hip the mass of that's placed on
both of the thighs the mass that's
placed on both of the shanks and the
mass of the object that's attached to
both of the feet okay they also placed
under evolutionary control um the leg
segment leg uh length so how long is the
upper leg and the lower leg you can see
it's the same L attached to the upper
and lower
leg which tells us that in this
experiment the upper leg always had to
be the same length as the lower leg but
for different robots in the population
they might have different L's some
robots may be taller and some robots may
be shorter than
others there's some additional
parameters here s uh for example uh the
X and Y Offset you can actually see that
visualized here for M Subs so this is X
Subs the X
offset of the shank Mass how far inwards
towards the center of the body or how
far outwards away a from the body is M
Subs
placed and Y Subs what is the uh
forwarder backward displacement of this
mass is it placed on the front of the
shank or on the back of the shank or mid
or inside the shank and so on so they're
going to be evolving basically the SI
the the side of the the size of these
lead blocks that are attached to the
robot and where these lead blocks are
placed you can probably start to figure
out why they did that in order to get
this particular bipad to successfully
transform uh to cly transform potential
energy into kinetic energy efficiently
you got to get the mass distribution of
the robot just right it's very difficult
to know a priori what that mass
distribution should be they're going to
try and let Evolution figure it out some
other body parameters that they evolved
they evolve the length of of the foot L
sub L subf here how how long or how
short uh is the foot the radius of the
uh
waste so what does this mean this means
uh this means how much the legs can
rotate back and forth around the waist
so a narrow a small w means that the leg
can only ever do this and a large w
means the leg can do
this they then evolved a 12th and final
number B suby which is the starting hip
angle around the y
axis I think this is actually a typo I
think this is supposed to be around the
x axis so again if you permit me the x
axis is pointing parallell through the
hip and what they're going to evolve is
they're going to evolve the starting hip
angle of the right
leg when the robot is placed at the top
of the declined plane so this would be a
b subby of zero this would be a b suby
of about
45 B suby of 30 B suby of 10 in order
to get the passive Dynamic Walker to
start walking it can't start at the top
of the decline plane with both feet uh
with both feet on the ground it's got to
start with one foot in front of the
other
uh in the air it's a little difficult to
see in this
video you might be able to see it when
we loop around to the beginning of the
video I think they clipped a little bit
of the the Beginning video we need to
actually have the robots leg a little
bit up in the ground so it starts to
fall forward and movement starts you can
actually see it a little bit better uh
actually can't really see it here either
my apologies you have to trust me on
this one okay so we now have a vector uh
with 12 numbers inside and if we take
those 12 numbers we can we can treat
those 12 numbers as a blueprint which
tells us how to build this biped inside
the evolutionary algorithm there's a
population of these vectors so the
second Vector might contain a different
set of 12 numbers which when we use it
to construct the robot produces a second
robot with a different body from the
first robot so you can really visualize
this evolutionary algorithm as evolving
the body
of the this biped robot towards the end
of this course we're going to see a lot
more examples of evolutionary algorithms
that evolve the body and brain of robots
this is sort of the first time we've
seen this so take a moment to absorb uh
this
change okay they're going to actually
not just evolve those 12 numbers they're
going to evolve some additional numbers
and those are encoded as follows they're
going to add an additional morphological
detail to their robot which we've
mentioned in passing before but we
actually haven't taken any time to
discuss we're going to do so now you'll
notice that they also built some Springs
into the robot they took a one spring
and connected it to the top of the
robot's right hip and attach the bottom
of that spring to the front of the
robot's right front to the front of the
robot's right upper
leg they attached a spring from here to
here they attached another spring from
inside the pelvis of the robot and again
attached it to the inside part uh of the
leg same thing on this side and this
side what do these Springs do well what
they mean is that if you imagine the
robot's right leg swinging forward
that's going to compress this spring
Springs don't like to be overly
compressed or overly uh lengthened so
the the spring will actually apply a
restoring Force if the spring is
scrunched up when the robot's right leg
swings forward the spring will apply a
force that pushes down against the uh
upper leg and pushes the leg backwards
we're not introducing any new energy
into the robot this is just the nature
of Springs alternatively if the right
leg swings back and away that's going to
St stretch that spring and that spring
doesn't like to be overly stretched so
it's going to in this case pull the
front leg
forward so this robot remember has no
sensors no Motors no batteries no neural
network controller it's a pure me
mechanical mechanism but it's now got
some Springs in it as well we've got one
two three four five six Springs same
thing here we're going to attach the top
front of the foot to to the shank and
another spring attaching the right side
the outer side of the foot to the shank
remember there are two springs on the
other side as well everything is exactly
uh everything is exactly the same so if
we just think about one side of the body
we've got one two three four Springs and
what's not shown here is there is a
fifth spring at the
knee you can probably imagine where this
is It's a spring that attaches just
across the back of the robot's
knee okay so we have five Springs on one
side of the body here's a list of them
here I'm not going to read them all off
but we've got uh uh two at the ankle the
two A's we've got two Springs in the hip
the two h's and we've got one that's not
shown here at the
knee in order to simulate a spring we
actually need uh we actually need five
numbers sorry in order to describe any
individual spring or simulate any
individual spring we need two numbers
the stiffness of that spring and the
damping coefficient of that spring so
let's imagine an individual spring and
think about that spring having different
stiffnesses or having different damping
coefficients you'll have to apologize my
little Scrolls here they're not uh
perfect let's actually start in the
bottom right this is the easiest one to
understand in this case uh in this
case in this case we have an example
spring that has low stiffness it's very
easy to push and pull on that spring and
no damping and we'll see the damping in
a moment so if we imagine time along the
horizontal axis here and we imagine the
vertical axis as uh whether the robot is
stretched Beyond its natural resting
length Every Spring likes to just be at
a certain length if we uh pull it Beyond
its natural resting length it will
gradually try and contract back and if
we compress it Y is less than zero we
compress it to its less shorter than its
resting length it will push and try and
expand back towards its resting length
so a low stiffness no damping spring
means if we let it go it will bounce
back and forth forever that's low
stiffness low damping let's go to a a
different spring that has the same low
stiffness It's relatively weak it'll
bounce uh back and forth quite a bit but
it's going to have damping in it meaning
that as it uh bounces back and forth it
will gradually settle down to y equals 0
here which is its resting uh
length let's switch over uh from the low
stiffness low damping case to a high
stiff highly stiff um non- damped spring
over here a spring with high stiffness
is very hard to uh is very hard to pull
Beyond its natural resting length and
very hard to push past uh to push it to
be less than its natural resting length
this would be like a spring that's made
from very thick iron it's very hard to
move it so it's got very low amplitude
oscillations but it could it might have
no damping even if we can move it a
little bit and let it go it will
oscillate at low amplitude about its
natural resting
length um a a spring with high stiffness
and high damping is also highly stiff
it's very it resists with great force
being pulled or pushed away from its
natural resting length and it has
damping once you let go it will
gradually come back to rest at its
resting length so there are two numbers
uh the stiffness and damping
coefficients that determine how how
stiff and how damped that spring is
remember that in one leg we have five
Springs each spring has two numbers
associated with it so we've got a total
of 10 numbers required to specify how
the five Springs in one leg
behaves remember that there are also
five Springs in the other leg but
everything about the bipedal robot is
bilaterally symmetric every every
parameter on the left side of the
robot's body is identical to that same
corresponding parameter on the other
side so the stiffness for example of
this spring on this leg is equal to the
stiffness of this spring on the far side
of this leg and so on okay so just a
review imagine that we remember that
we're going to try and
evolve sets of parameters to set all of
these body parameters and these body
parameters how many total body
parameters are we embedding in this one
long Vector that encodes the genotype
that is the genotype for a particular
robot I'll take you I'll give you a
moment to think about
this as you'll recall we have 12 total
numbers here and 10 numbers here there
are a total of 22 different body
parameters that describe that tells the
evolutionary algorithm how to construct
a particular biped in the phys extension
okay okay I told you that so far this
robot does not have uh this robot does
not have a a neural network controller
it doesn't yet but it's going to in a
moment and we'll come back we'll come
back to this okay it is going to have a
brain but we'll talk about that in a
moment okay so we've got this population
of length 22 vectors one 22 length
Vector another 22 length vector and so
on so we have a population of 100 length
22 vectors there are 100 candidate
robots that we need to assess the
fitness for in the first generation how
do we assess how well that set of 22
numbers translates into a uh a robot
that's or a mechanism that's capable of
passive Dynamic walking well we could
create a fitness function that's equal
to D where D is just the distance
traveled we have our declined plane in
simulation we put we construct a
particular bipad with a certain height
and certain Mass distribution and
certain spring properties inside of it
we rotate the right hand leg to whatever
that angle should be let the leg go and
just watch how far down the decline PL
plane this robot gets and we measure
that distance it travels uh along the
declin plane and set that to be its
Fitness imagine running this
evolutionary algorithm at the end we're
going to have a robot that is able to
achieve a very large D how do you think
the robot behaves in order to accomplish
that
D if you've been paying attention in
this class at all you'll know that it
probably perversely instantiated this
Fitness function the easiest way for
something like this to uh achieve a long
distance down a decline plane is fall
forward and slide all the way head first
or hip first in this case to the bottom
of the declined
plane that's why in this experiment the
investigators did not use a fitness
function of F equals D I'm going to
guess they probably did at the beginning
but then they had to add on some
additional terms to this Fitness
function to maximize uh displacement but
minimize all the wrong ways of uh
moving so I'm going to skip uh I'm going
to skip ahead and talk about this
particular term for a moment you'll see
that it's one over 1 plus Z and if we
look at the legend here it tells us that
Z is defined as the hip rotation about
the uh about the Z
axis what does that mean um a robot that
has large hip rotation about the z-axis
and I promised you that the ministry of
silly walks video is going to be
important here's where it's
important a robot that maximizes
rotation about the Z axis is going to be
a robot that walks like
this if we uh measure the total amount
of hip rotation about the Za axis as the
robot walks down the decline plane in
the simulation if we sum all those
rotations and make sure that it's a
positive number maybe we take the
absolute angle about
Z we want to minimize this number we
want to have as little rotation about
the Z axis as the robot walks down the
decline plane so by multiplying D * 1
over 1 + z we're telling Evolution to
evolve a gate a way of moving for this
robot that maximizes distance and
minimizes this unnecessary rotation
about the vertical uh
axis okay um I'm going to skip over one
over one plus T this will come this will
be you there's no forces being applied
in this first uh
step this next term I want to talk about
is one over 1 plus X this is hip
rotation about the x axis so the x axis
is the one that points in parallel
through the hip I want you to think
about the opposite case imagine a robot
that gets high D it manages to walk down
the or move down the deine decline plane
not necessarily
walk uh and we want want to minimize a
rotation about X again apologies for the
silly walks a robot or mechanism that
maximizes rotation about X would walk
down the decline plane like this as well
as a robot that falls forward that would
incur a lot of rotation about the x axis
on its way down to fall on its face or
fall on the front of its hip on the
declined plane
so by minimizing in particular this by
minimizing X again assuming X is a
positive value the The evolutionary
algorithm penalizes robots that fall
forward and robots that walk down the
decline plane like this okay let's see
we've covered this one this one 1 over
1+ R this is feet rotation about the Z
axis this one's kind of odd they must
have got a lot of cases where the feet
were yawing a lot they were rotating
about the vertical axis quite a bit and
I will allow you in the uh privacy of
your own home to act out a robot that
maximizes y hip rotation about the y
axis can you see it okay are you doing
it
okay okay again my apologies for some
reason the investigators did not capture
any uh videos of successful or
unsuccessful robots so you'll have to
trust me uh at this point that in this
very first stage where they were
evolving passive walking they evolved
the body parameters uh they put the
robot on the declined plane and uh they
let the robot walk down the declined
plane you'll mention you'll see that
there's some additional uh details here
something about a cpg I just want to
make sure that we get this clear in our
heads first in this first phase of
evolution they're mostly evolving the
body and they're trying to get the body
right in order for this thing to
passively walk down the declined plane
okay let's back up a little bit
now this is the neural controller that's
eventually going to control the robot it
doesn't yet with the exception of one
small piece uh one small piece of this
network there is a particular uh neuron
up here called the cpg and we'll talk
about this neuron in a moment you'll see
that the cpg has synapses that connect
the cpg to the some of the Hidden
neurons and these hidden neurons connect
to two motor neurons one that controls
the uh X joint in the hip and the other
one that controls the
Y uh the Y rotation in the hip I'm just
going to back up for a
moment to where did we get to uh here so
remember there are two uh there are two
hinged joints in the
hip these are the to two motor neurons
that control it yeah so we're actually
in this first stage going to evolve
those 22 body parameters and an
additional one 2 3 four five 6 seven
eight numbers the weights of those eight
synapses so strictly speaking this is
not a perfectly passive Dynamic robot
it's going to be a little bit active
there's going to be a little bit of
force act acting upon the mechanism from
these two motor
neurons what is this cpg neuron the cpg
stands for Central pattern generator
it's a centralized place in this neuron
that generates a particular pattern in
this experiment you can think of the cpg
as a metronome it's going to emit a
pulse at a regular time
interval during those pulses the CP G is
set to one and during all the other
periods the cpg is set to zero okay what
is this time interval for now it doesn't
matter in this very first experiment the
cpg is going to send a signal a a value
of one to the right
leg which as you'll recall at the top of
the decline place has been uh rotated a
little bit off uh rotated a little bit
in front of the robot and then the cpg
is going to fire during the first time
step of the
simulation there's going to be a little
bit of firing and the weights of those
uh eight synapses are going to
influence how the leg moves in response
to that firing of the cpg so there are
going to be there's going to be some
Force applied by the motors to the Joint
to the The Joint in the hip at just the
first time step
and then the cpg will go quiet it is not
going to emit a pulse at a regular time
interval yet everybody see that okay
okay so um let's go back to this last
term here now we can talk about this one
one over 1 plus T in the very first time
step the motor neuron uh one one of the
motor neurons sends a force or a torque
a rotational Force to the uh hinge joint
that's controlling rotation about the Y
AIS in the right hip very specific we
want to apply as little torque as
possible we're really trying to keep
this to be a passively dynamic mechanism
we're trying to minimize in this Fitness
function we're trying to maximize D
minimize t x ZR and
Y okay so now we can come back here in
this first stage of evolution they're
going to evolve all 22 body parameters
plus the eight cpg to motor uh to to
motor neurons that we just saw so this
Vector is not actually length 22 it's of
length 22 plus 8 it's of length
30 when we go to evaluate each genotype
each set of 30 numbers we build our
robot set it up at the beginning apply
this one cpg pulse which kind of
electrifies the right leg for one time
step then goes quiet after that pulse
turn off the cpg turn off the whole
neural network and for the remaining
time steps the robot is a purely
passively Dynamic
mechanism okay again I'm so sorry you're
going to have to trust me there's no
video they manage to evolve a robot that
passively dynamically walks down the
declined
plane at this point in evolution they
now have a set of 30 numbers that can be
used as a blueprint to build a simulated
mechanism that successfully passively
dynamically walks down the declined
plane that's all it can do if you take
this robot and put it on flat ground
after Evolution there's no reason why it
should actually walk so in this
experiment they moved on to a second
stage in which they continued Evolution
they continued evolving these length 30
vectors to try and expand or actually
broaden the robustness of the robot that
it can walk down decline planes and also
walk over flat ground they're going to
start to slightly change the tradeoff
that this particular passive Dynamic
Walker has struck between Locomotion or
sorry displacement stability uh
robustness and Energy
Efficiency okay how do they do that
um let's uh talk about uh what's
familiar they're going to keep evolving
all 30 numbers the 22 body parameters
and the eight synaptic weights that
connect the cpg to the PO two po motor
neurons in the
hip during the evaluation of a of a
single robot at the beginning of
simulation they're going to put the
robot at the top of the decline plane
rotate the right leg to whatever angle
it should
be sorry I'm jumping around a little bit
here they're going to at time Step Zero
allow the cpg to send a pulse to the uh
motor neurons in the right leg so the
right leg will Jitter a little bit and
then the robot will start to hopefully
fall forward as the time step runs t0 T1
T2 T3 and so on at T subk some K * steps
in the simulation occur until the heel
the right heel of the robot strikes the
ground the right heel of the robot
strikes the ground okay at that time
they're going to assume that that period
of time K time steps should be the
natural Rhythm of the
cpg at that moment K the cpg sends a
value of one to the motor neurons in the
left leg and is sending zero to the
right leg so here we go we got the cpg
up here it sends a value of one to the
right leg boom K time steps go by the
right uh the the right heel hits the
ground it send the cpg sends a one to
the left leg and then goes quiet for
another ktime steps then it sends a one
to the right leg K time steps sends a
one to the left leg K one k one
K1 K becomes the frequency of the gate
for that robot everybody see
that okay that's what we mean by regular
time interval here we don't know what
that regular time interval should be we
calculate it based on the Dynamics of
the
robot okay so in the second stage
they're evolving the robot uh they
they're continuing Evolution on they've
already evolved these 30 vectors to get
walking down the declined uh
plane and they're now allowing the cpg
to apply an Impulse Force to uh to the
legs at a certain
frequency
okay at this point we're evolving I'm
going to go back to the brain for a
moment so you'll see the cpg actually
has synapses that
connect to all of the five motor neurons
neurons in the leg here's some more
connections it's is a little bit messily
drawn these are all the hidden neurons
here the cpg fires what you're looking
at here is the neural network a neural
network for the robot that controls just
one leg remember that the passive
Dynamic Walker is bilaterally symmetric
so there is this neural network inside
the robot's uh inside the robot's left
side of its body the same exact network
with the same set of synaptic weights in
the right side of the body so whatever
these weights are whatever they cause
the robot that leg to do in response to
the cpg signal the other leg does
exactly the same thing in response to
the cpg signal ktime steps later so all
the the five motor neurons do what they
do when they get their cpg signal and
then the other five neurons the other
five motor neurons and the other leg do
what they do K times steps
later
okay okay let's
continue so we just described uh this
three-part experiment where in the first
phase of evolution they evolved passive
Dynamic walking down a declined plane
and now they're going to continue
evolving the population uh of control of
controllers and bodies for these robots
to evolve them in into hybrid Dynamic
Walkers they're going to walk them along
uh an increasingly lower declined plane
so evolve evolve Evol evolve evolve
evolve for Passive walking down the
decline plane pause and now make a few
changes we're going to lengthen the
genotypes so that we're now
including I'm sorry we are not going to
increase the length of the genotypes
we're continuing to evolve the synaptic
weights that flow from the central
pattern generator so the motor neurons
we're going to continue to evolve the 22
body parameters but we are going to make
a change to the fitness function as we
continue evolution in this second phase
we're going to add a new term we're
going to multiply all of this by a new
term one over one plus V where V
represents the difference between the
robot passively walking down the decline
plane and the robot walking in a hybrid
manner down a gradually lowered decline
plane over evolutionary time during the
second phase they're going to gradually
make the declined plane more and more
shallow we've seen this concept several
times now this is the idea of
scaffolding by the end of the first
phase it's relatively easy for many
genotypes in the population when used to
construct a biped that bipad walks down
the decline plane that that passive
Walker has a harder and harder time
walking down a shallower and shallower
declined plane so they're going to
continue to evolve it to do so we now
we're giving the cpg is giving this
regular pulse at every K time steps for
each
robot and every uh every genome is going
to be evaluated twice during this second
phase once on the declined plane in the
passive walking mode and a second time
on this shallower declined plane and
they're going to take the velocities or
the way in which uh the robot moves
under these two environments environment
one environment two and we're going to
try and minimize the difference between
those ways of walking so we want the
robot to evolve the ability to walk
using the regular cpg pulse in the
hybrid Manner and to move very similarly
to how it moved in the passive walking
case when there was only one CB cpg
pulse applied to the right leg during
the very first time step of the
simulation okay
uh this K time step this is going to be
different for different robots during
the this evolutionary uh period so
taller robots there might be a longer
period until the first heel strike for
shorter robots it may take a a shorter
period of time until first heel strike
so each robot probably has its own cpg
frequency okay so during this second
phase evolve evolve evolve evolve evolve
evolve evolve evolve evolve until at the
end of the second
stage uh most of the robots in the
population at that time are able to walk
in a hybrid manner with the cpg doing
this and they're also able to walk still
also walk passively down the decline
plane with just the cpg doing
this
okay okay uh I like this experiment
because it just keeps going at the end
of this evolutionary phase they paused
Evolution but they kept their population
of Rob robots at that time and now
they're going to then make some changes
to the evolutionary algorithm and then
start The evolutionary algorithm back up
again to evolve sensor-based walking as
you'll as you can see if we go back to
the neural network for a moment the only
synaptic weights uh the only part of the
brain of the robot are values flowing
from the cpg into the uh Mo into the
five motor neurons all of these synaptic
weights here that connect the ERS to the
hidden neurons all of these synapses
currently have a value of zero the robot
is blind and cannot feel anything in
this third in this third stage what
they're going to do is uh reconnect the
sensors to the neural network with small
connection weights what does that
mean they're going to take all of these
synapses which currently have a value of
zero and assign very small all random
numbers to them random numbers that are
close to zero and I don't know how many
synapses are in here there's a lot
they're going to add all of those
randomly generated numbers onto the end
of every uh every genotype in the
population that's sitting there at the
end of the second phase so they're
basically opening the eyes of the robot
a little bit it can see a little bit but
because these synaptic weights are still
very close to zero they're not
disrupting the robot's Behavior it's
still able to hybridly dynamically walk
down the declined on flat ground and
passively walk down the declined plane
but there's a little bit of sensory
information coming in to influence that
behavior okay so we now have a much long
longer uh
genotype and then we start up Evolution
and we continue evolving uh the 22 body
parameters and all of the Sy aptic
weights connecting the cpg to the hidden
neurons to the motor neurons plus all
these new synapses it's a lot going on
in this experiment take your time and
make sure you've ABS uh ABS you've
absorbed all that during this third
phase of evolution they continue using
this Fitness function that is also
multiplied by this term here so they're
again looking to minimize differences
between the robot uh walking uh walking
as a result of being influenced by its
cpg and being influenced by the incoming
sensory
information as ution now continues on
during this third phase mutations might
start to increase the magnitude of these
very low magnitude synaptic weights that
connect the the sensor neurons to the
hidden neurons in essence If evolution
finds it useful it will gradually Open
the Eyes of the robots and uh and also
start to allow it to feel more angle
information proprioceptive information
I'm saying Open Eyes in a metaphorical
sense the robot doesn't have any visual
input in this case it simply feels the
movement of its body and it feels
contact with the ground so let's have a
look at all of these sensors which are
now in this third phase becoming
increasingly available to the robot to
modulate or alter how it uh moves so
you'll notice there's a whole bunch of a
sensors here a stands for angle sensors
so we've seen these before these are are
referred in different experiments to
angle or proceptive information they're
providing a number which corresponds to
the angle of the joint we also see some
new sensors that we haven't seen before
and these are Force sensors and these
Force sensors are actually sitting on
the springs and a force sensor returns a
value of zero if the spring is at its
resting length the length at which it
likes to be and that Force sensor
returns a negative number if the sensor
if the spring is stretched Beyond its
resting length and is trying to pull
back to its resting length and a force
sensor will return a positive value if
the spring is compressed and the spring
is trying to push the two things uh that
are on either end of it apart yeah
that's a a force sensor you actually
have Force sensor in your muscles as
well you can Fe that's what you feel
when you feel stretched or you're
pulling in those four sensors that are
embedded in your muscles or giving your
giving your body information about how
stretched or how compressed your muscle
groups
are two other kinds of sensors that are
in here um that we haven't seen before
these are rotation uh rotation sensors
so we've got rotation X rotation y
rotation Z and this gives uh the robot
information about how much it's tilting
about the x axis the Z axis and what am
I missing the y axis
yeah these three sensors here are kind
of like your inner ear which is your
vestibular organ that gives you
information about how your head is
oriented relative to down which is the
pool of
gravity uh you also have information uh
acceleration information coming in here
as well so how much the robot is
accelerating about its xaxis how much
it's accelerating about
its y AIS Z axis and x axis I know I
just mixed those up so the angle about
those three axes and the acceleration
about those three axes your inner ear
your vestibular organ also gives you
information not just about how your head
is oriented relative to gravity but how
quickly the orientation of your head is
changing and that's why when you spin
around in a circle you SOS all that
fluid around in your inner ear and when
you stop your inner ear is telling you
that you're still accelerating even
though you aren't and you fall down okay
so a bunch of sensors here some that are
familiar some that are new to us
regardless this robot has a bunch of
sensors that during Evolution Evolution
can start to increase the magnitude of
synaptic weight connecting those sensor
neurons to the hidden neurons and make
increasing use of that information to
modulate the robots uh Behavior again uh
I apologize about this experiment it
would have been great if they showed us
some videos of the robot successfully uh
moving uh this is the best that we get
this is a plot showing how the best
robot the most fit robot at the end of
stage three is moving you'll notice that
this particular robot um when it's
uh when its right foot starts up off the
ground the first heel strike happens
about 28 time steps into the simulation
so that sets a frequency for the cpg
which is like a metronome to to fire
every 28 time steps in the simulation
and this simulation lasts for a total of
250 uh time steps during each step so
the robot hits with its right heel hits
with its left heel right heel left heel
right heel left heel right heel during
each one of those steps you can see how
the angle of the hip I'm sorry not the
angle of the hip you can see how the
value um of the motor neuron that's
attached to that hip is firing and you
can see the value of the motor output
the value of the motor neuron that's
attached to the knee how it's firing the
reason I want that what I want the main
message I want you to take away from
this picture is you'll see that the
motor neuron that's attached to the knee
is firing near zero for the second half
of each step of the robot sound familiar
this should remind you of the beginning
of our discussion about passive Dynamic
walking and that in you when you're
walking you're walk Walking mostly
passively uh for half of the time every
month muscle group in your leg is slack
it is the muscle fibers are not pulling
there is nothing in this Fitness
function that explicitly rewards for
Energy Efficiency it falls out as a side
effect of the way these investigators
evolved initially passive walking down a
declined plane then continued to evolve
those robots to walk hybridly on flat
ground and then finally to walk in a way
in which the sensors mod modulate or
control uh how that walking
occurs
okay they they kept going um this is the
experiment that just keeps going so
we've seen three uh we've seen three uh
cases now oh I'm sorry I I misspoke um
no Evolution here they took some of the
best uh they took the best Walker I
think it was this one from the end of
the third phase and they played back
that Walker many many times and that
Walker is walking over flat ground at
this point using hybrid Dynamic walking
pulse pulse pulse
pulse and they exposed the robot to
increasingly strong wind so when they
played back the robot the first time
there's no external perturbation to the
robot and the robot takes about 38 steps
before uh falling over or it might have
been 38 steps and that's when the
simulation ends doesn't matter for our
purposes they then took the ex exact
same robot with exactly the same neural
controller and set of evolved synaptic
weights and now as the robot was moving
they applied small external impulse
forces to the robot remember that
gravity pulls downward on the robot in a
simulation in the same way we can add
additional external forces to the robot
not just an external Force pulling the
robot down and we can apply it at random
angles those forces forces are vectors
remember we you can apply those Force
vectors anywhere at any angle at any
point on the robot's body and simulate
something like uh wind in very mild wind
there's no effect on the robot it also
takes 38 steps reset the robot uh and
allow it to start walking again in
slightly stronger wind stronger wind and
stronger wind and it isn't until wind is
at 5 and my apologies the physics engine
that they used like ours is also
unitless so it's hard to say how strong
the forces were of five but whatever
five was the robot starts to take fewer
and fewer steps but it's still taking
quite a few steps before it falls over
so for example at a on a windy day here
of 10 the robot is able to take 15 Steps
before it falls over and even in very
windy conditions here it's still able to
take five steps before falling over so
this is interesting because the robot
was never evolved in windy conditions
we're exposed osing the robot to
external perturbations it never saw
before and in this case it happens to be
relatively robust uh in the paper the
investigators actually mentioned that
when the robot was pushed too far to one
side the robot was OB observed to adjust
its foot placement by stepping inward to
regain its balance that should also
sound familiar to you remember the video
of the four-legged uh walking big dog uh
when it was kicked or it slips on the
ice it's able to change how it places
its feet very rapidly to recover its
balance same thing here
okay uh I'm sorry I misspoke uh this
they were evolving for another I'm sorry
they were evolving for another 100
Generations under uh windy conditions
I'm I'm sorry I misspoke so sorry of
phase one evolve passive Dynamic walking
down a declined plane step two continue
of evolving those robots to walk
hybridly on flat ground phase three
continue to evolve these robots but
allow the sensors to increasingly
influence how the robot walks and in
phase four evolve the robot in
increasingly windy conditions and the
fact that the robot uh changed how it
walked when it when it started to fall
over when it was pushed that's thanks to
the sensors a robot without sensors if
it's perturbed wouldn't know first of
all wouldn't know that it's perturbed
let alone know how to change its way of
walking to
recover they continued evolving for uh a
fifth phase and in this phase they
didn't introduce uh external
perturbations like wind they introduced
internal perturbations every time they
took this now very long genotype and
they pulled out the 22 numbers that
serve as the blueprint to tell the
physics engine how to construct the
robot they introduced mistakes into the
blueprint not into the genotype itself
they kept those 22 numbers as they were
but when the physics engine was reading
out those numbers to set leg length for
example and figure out where to place
the mass um on the thigh they'd
introduce small mistakes so here's an
example um this these two robots were
built from exactly the same set of 22
body parameters and you can see one
robot is taller than the other which
means this L inherited an overly large
number and this L inherited a pretty low
number uh and so again now on the
horizontal axis they look to see at the
end of this fifth phase of evolution now
passive walking hybrid walking
sensor-based walking walking in wind and
walking in the presence of manufacturing
mistakes the robot is still able to take
a large l number of steps even if its
body parameters are are about 7% on
average uh
incorrect why would the investigators
bother uh doing this well at the time
this paper was written there was this
brand new technology that was being
introduced called 3D printers and that
immediately woke up most roboticists to
the potential that in the future we
would be actually 3D printing robots
rather than making them by hand 3D
printers were probably going to be a
wonderful technology but like every
machine they were probably going to make
mistakes so in the future if we're going
to have 3D printers that are stamping
out and Manufacturing a large number of
robots they're going to make
manufacturing errors and we would like
those designs that are being
manufactured to be robust to
manufacturing
air okay all right now Evolution ceases
we're finally done they took the most
fit robot from the end of that fifth
phase this is a robot that can walk
passively down a declined plane it can
walk in a hybrid manner on flat ground
it walks in response to the cpg and its
incoming sensory information it's
somewhat robust to wind and it's
somewhat robust to manufacturing error
and like we saw when we talked about the
figures uh what we talked about at the
beginning of this lecture when we were
looking at the biome mechanics of animal
they performed an interesting experiment
where they altered the frequency of the
cpg they sped up the metronome and
slowed it down okay let's have a look at
this so what we're looking at on the
horizontal axis here is a total of about
a thousand time steps in one simulation
where they simulated this one most fit
evolved robot and the natural dynamics
of the robot set the metronome or set
the cpg to fire every 35 time steps 35
70 105 140 and so on so I want you to
pay careful attention to the widths
between the Peaks between uh neighboring
peaks of the cpg when it's firing and
you'll notice that in this period here
they've actually narrowed the width
between these strikes this is them at
this point in time speeding up the
metronome and you can see that something
is happening to the stride uh length
here so step length is plotted on the
vertical axis so these Blue Mountains
here correspond to how far out in front
of its body the robot rotates each leg
when that leg is the swing leg so here's
the robot taking a relatively large
stride and when they speed up the
metronome what does the robot do it
starts to take shorter faster steps to
keep up with the faster beat of the cpg
you can simulate this yourself again do
this in the privacy of your home where
nobody's watching is Count off to
yourself a certain a certain Pace one
two three four and take steps at that
pace and then in your head start
counting faster 5 6 7 8 9ine 10 what do
you have to do generally speaking unless
you want to really break a sweat you can
just take shorter steps and faster steps
to keep up with that fast fter
metronome in the last third of the
simulation they slow down the metronome
the metronome the width between the
Peaks or the strikes of the cpg in here
these widths are actually wider than
these wids over here it's a little hard
to see it's okay if you can't see it
what you can see is the height of these
mountains is even higher than the height
of these mountains during this
slower uh Pace in the cpg the robot is
taking much longer strides than it
evolved to take naturally not uh not
very uh
surprising this is something that humans
tend to do in bipedal walking when they
want to walk faster or
slower okay that concludes uh our our
lecture on bipedal locomotion in the
next lecture we're going to switch gears
and start to address and uh review some
of the open problems in evolutionary
robotics thank you see you then